Interview Problems for goCatch
===============================

Introduction
------------

These interview problems were designed to test your ability to:

* Read Scala code
* Understand the intent of Scala code
* Recognise common functional programming idioms
* Think laterally
* Write efficient code

Preparation
-----------
* Install [SBT][] version `0.13.x`.
* Install [git][].
* Clone this project.

Instructions
------------
* `cd` into project directory
* Run `sbt ~test`.  `sbt` will wait for changes to scala code in the project and
  recompile and run tests in response to each change.
* These tests will fail because some functions have been left unimplemented.  Your
  task is to implement these functions so that the tests pass.
* Open each file in `src/test/scala` and implement those functions marked with
  `???` with the required implementation.

Question 1
----------

Please complete the three functions `foo0`, `foo1` and `foo2` to pass all the tests!

The functions are defined as:

    def foo0(xs: List[Int]): Int = ???

    def foo1(xs: List[Int]): Int = ???

    def foo2(xs: List[Int]): Int = ???

Please replace the `???` with your implementation.


Question 2
----------

A binary tree is a tree which contains a root node which contain some value and two subtree, left subtree and right subtree, which are also binary tree, for example

            root
           /    \
    left tree   right tree

A binary tree is a binary search tree (BST) if all the values in the left subtree being lower than the value of root and all the values being higher than the value of root.

Assuming you are given a N nodes whose values range from `[1, N]`, how many different binary search tree can be created using all of them.

You need to write a function:

    def bstCount(n: Int): BigDecimal

which counts how many unique BSTs can be constructed.

For example:

    bstCount(1) = 1
    Explanation : We have only one tree.
    1

    bstCount(2) = 2
    Explanation : Two trees can be created using two nodes.
    1          2
     \        /
      2      1

    bstCount(3) = 5
    Explanation : Five trees can be created using three nodes.
    1          1         2         3        3
     \          \       / \       /        /
      2          3     1   3     1        2
       \        /                 \      /
        3      2                   2    1

Submitting your solutions
-------------------------

To submit your solution, you will need to commit your changes to your local git repository and then generate a patch.

A patch can be generated by running the following `git` command:

    git format-patch origin/master --stdout > solutions.patch

Once you have your patch, attach it to an email.

If you are applying this for a position at [goCatch][] directly, please send the email with your solution to <jason@gocatch.com>, otherwise send the email to your recruitment agent.

  [git]: http://git-scm.com/
  [goCatch]: http://gocatch.com
  [SBT]: http://www.scala-sbt.org
